Well, I'd just say I'm glad to have you here, and I'm awful glad you're doing this work.
Thank you much.
As we began, let's learn more about your parents, because they were certainly pillars of the A&M community for a long time.
give us a biography of your parents.
Where did they grow up and their experience before coming here?
Well, my father grew up in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, attended Davidson College.
Then I worked at the Blue Ridge Assembly in Black Mountain for a couple of years.
And then
I went to work at Clemson as an assistant in the YMCA, and then joined the U.S.
Army as a Y member.
I mean, it was kind of like Red Cross, except it was the Y. I served in France with the American Army in World War I, and then joined the British Army under the same capacity, and went to the Sudan in Africa.
and then came back to the United States and took a job as head of the Y at Austin College in Sherman.
My mother was raised in Wills Point, Texas and through a friend of hers in Sherman, she was introduced and mom and dad married, went back to Blue Ridge, North Carolina on her honeymoon and came back and worked at Sherman for a little while and then they came to A&M
to be head of the Y about 1924.
I can't tell you the exact date, but sometime during that year.
How long had they been at Austin College?
I don't know the answer to that.
It was several years.
because, as you mentioned, that athletic field up there was named for him.
But I really can't tell you how long they were there.
And you failed to mention their denominational affiliation.
Of the Presbyterian Church.
My mother was raised in the Church of Christ.
And, of course, Daddy was raised...
in the Presbyterian Church, although in North Carolina they call it something else.
But then when they came down here, Daddy was affiliated with the Union Sunday School on the campus and was part of the early group with the A&M Presbyterian Church.
Share any recollections you can about any feelings they had about
as they got here, how they felt about A&M at that time, where they lived, how well they were received, and so forth.
Well, of course, I don't really, I mean, I wasn't born then, and I don't know that I ever heard many conversations about that.
I do remember mother talking about the fact that Mrs. Walton was one of the first people that she ever met.
and she met Mrs. Walden's daughter, Ethel, who later became my mother-in-law.
They moved into the house across the street from the hospital, between the hospital and Dr. Marsh's house, and I remember them talking about activities with other
members of the A&M faculty that they were friends with, the Sherwoods, the Gammons, people like that.
But other than when I came along, I don't know anything about the early time.
You never heard them mention about
people being cool and not receiving?
No, not really.
I just remember some conversation about they were glad to be here and they enjoyed the staff.
Of course, at that time, A&M was pretty isolated compared to anybody else, so the staff was pretty close to each other.
And the house where they moved that you've already mentioned,
Is that the house that your family lived in for a long time?
Yes, it is.
Please describe that house.
Well, that house was a large frame house, had a front porch and we had a separate garage out at the side, but it had three bedrooms and a kitchen and a big living room and a back screen porch.
In 1938, 39, whenever it was, they decided that all the faculty had to move off the campus.
They offered anybody that was living in a house the opportunity to buy it.
And as I recall, Daddy paid $1,200 for it.
I'm not sure of that, but I think that's right.
And the house was moved off the campus, although it was a very, very wet year.
And it took an awful long time to move that house.
But they finally got it moved over on Timber Street at the corner of Timber and Anna.
And we stayed at another house on the campus in the meantime.
And then when that house was finished while we moved down there and lived down there until we moved up on the campus when mother was hostess to the board of directors.
You were born what year?
1931.
So you and I are about the same age.
March 18 for me.
November 10.
Have you heard any family stories about your birth and so forth?
No, not really, except Dr. Marsh said that when he used to go into the hospital, I might as well stay.
Mama might as well stay at home.
And as I recall, I was about to come along, and they hollered at Dr. Marsh at his house, and he came over to the house, and I don't know what time I was born.
That's about all I know about it.
And you're the oldest?
I'm the youngest.
Oh, you're the youngest?
I'm younger.
Jim's older.
So just two boys?
That's correct.
I've heard from someone else that if Dr. Marsh brought the nurse along, it cost the family $5 more.
I don't know about that.
Of course, the two nurses that we knew so well over there were Mom Cleghorn and Ms.
Irene Vaughn, and they both spent a lot of time at our house.
Those two nurses and Dr. Marsh were the medical staff for the entire campus.
Is that right?
Basically, yes.
So if a young man broke a thumb or got a cut or something like that.
Whatever.
He went over.
And did the health facility have a nickname yet?
Not that I know of.
It wasn't the quack shop?
No, I don't think so.
Describe Dr. Marsh.
Dr. Marsh was a very energetic person who loved the outdoors.
He loved to go to the coast and go fishing.
He also kept a whole bunch of dogs out there that they used to hunt with.
Dr. Marsh was very, I'd call him proper and prompt.
One of the things I remember about Dr. Marsh, he had a great big desk in an office at home and he always had Juicy Fruit chewing gum.
Ms.
Marsh was a good cook and always had, she used to make some taffy that we'd go there and pull and she'd give us those mints.
But both of them were very good neighbors and good friends and I'm still friends with the kids.
So as you are growing up as a little boy, describe what it was like to grow up on that campus.
Well, as a little boy, I kind of had to run to the campus.
You couldn't go anywhere other than the campus, and I'd take off and go nearly anywhere.
Invariably, I'd end up over at the hospital because Miss Vaughn would give me a bottle of grape juice, and I just thought grape juice was wonderful.
So she'd give me some grape juice over there, and if I got a cut or a scrape or something,
It never occurred to me to go home.
I'd go see Ms.
Vaughn.
But I used to wander around the campus.
I can remember going out and watching the old field artillery because they had some little bitty contraptions that shot a metal ball about the size of a jawbreaker.
And that's what they learned to aim their sights with.
I remember the fireman's training school, which used to be on the campus, and they'd put ladders up and hold them with ropes and climb ladders and do all that sort of thing.
I used to go watch them march into chow all the time, just because it was fun to go up there.
I didn't think anything at all of walking to the Y from the house, even as a little bitty youngster.
because I'd get to the Y and Daddy would be there and I might play some pool or at one time go for a swim or
whatever else we might do at the Y. And then at night I'm very likely to go to the assembly hall which was the picture show and I could go any night except Thursday night because Thursday night was benefit night and that cost 25 cents.
And I never could go for benefit night because I never could pay the 25 cents but I used to go to the assembly hall and
There was a peanut concession that was run by the Y, and some student would have that.
There was a little shack over by Pop Warner's hamburger stand behind the exchange store, and this is where they roasted the peanuts, and they'd carry them over there, sell them during the movies, but during the daytime they just left a box of peanuts there, and anybody that wanted them came along and threw a dime in the box.
And I didn't have a dime to buy any, so I'd pick one up off the floor before the show and throw it at somebody.
And they'd throw a whole bunch of peanuts back, of course.
And I'd pick all them up and put them in my pocket except one, and I'd throw the one back and get some more thrown at me.
And by the time the show started, well, I'd have two pockets full of peanuts.
As you are a little boy, elementary or younger, who were your closest buddies and what did you all do as young boys?
Well, and of course in the summertime, P.L.
Downs Natatorium opened at three o'clock and I had taken that from one to three and finally got to where I could get up
so I could be there at three o'clock because it was always a fight to see who was the first one in the pool.
And there are lots of, generally I played with older people because there were more people my brother's age than there were my age and so I'd either play or sit and watch but people like
Wally Anderson, the Tabors, the Gammons, Louise and Jack Marsh.
There were some other kids that lived down the street, but I can't tell you what all the names were.
Did y'all ever attempt any pranks?
Oh, we pulled a few pranks.
We used to stand out in the street, particularly in front of Dr. Marsh's house, and play like we had a rope, pulling on that.
I'm accused of turning...
The power plant railroad track used to run down across the end of the street, and I'm accused of turning the engine over by stacking rocks on the track.
I don't know whether I really did that or not, but the engine did turn over.
after I'd been playing on the track.
This is the engine to bring coal?
Coal to the power plant.
That was before they went to a gas-fired plant.
They used to haul coal over there.
I've been known to pull a prank or two.
Were there any areas of the campus that were forbidden for a young boy?
No, I don't think so.
We didn't travel west of the railroad tracks much.
because there wasn't much out there with the exception of the old fish tank, the Y cabin that used to be out there.
I used to go out there a whole lot which is where the old zoo was.
But I generally went out there with my daddy and I think about the only thing that I wasn't really supposed to do was go and
the dormitories or go in the buildings.
And other than the Y, I don't ever remember going in any of the buildings much except the ME shops.
It was always fascinating to go in the shops and watch what they did.
As a first grader, where was the school when you entered the first grade?
When I entered the first grade, the school was
Actually, very close to where Dorm One was, that old building is an old stucco building across from what was called The Corner, which was one of the places put in to take care of the service people during the war.
And it's basically a block east of the Colas building.
And do you remember about how many first graders were there?
Well, there were two sections of first grade.
One was Mrs. Sloop's class, which I was in.
No, I wasn't in Mrs. Sloop's class.
I was in Mrs. Brownlee's class.
But Mrs. Brownlee had one section and Mrs. Sloop had another.
And at that time Miss Sloop had a new teaching method having to do with spelling that she had and it was just being tried in her class.
But there were two sections and I'd say there were probably 40 students in the two sections.
Of those students, about how many were from the country?
I don't know, I would say roughly a fourth.
So most of the youngsters were from the community that today we would call College Station.
Yes.
I've heard some people say that the phrase in that era was that people, you lived out at college instead of College Station.
Okay.
I remember that expression a whole lot.
And it was a long way to Bryan.
Well, it was five miles down a two-lane
And of course, in the early days, they had the trolley.
And then they used to have a bus that left the Y and circled by the corner and then ran to Brian.
But the last bus was at 12 o'clock.
And if you missed that, you had to walk.
12 o'clock midnight.
Right.
Now, was there a trolley during your memory?
I really don't remember the trolley.
I presume it ran on the railroad track?
No, it ran on a railroad track.
Not the railroad track.
You can still see some evidences of the trolley.
If you go down 29th Street, I'm not sure what street that is, but about halfway between Coulter and downtown, there's a street that turns through there, and you can see some of the old tracks.
Oh, good.
The space between college and Bryan was just- Vacant land.
Vacant land.
Yeah.
And how often did your family go all the way to Bryan?
We might go once every three or four weeks.
Where did your mom buy groceries?
I don't know whether you call it a co-op store or what it was, but there was a store located in the red brick building directly in front of the old exchange store, and you could go in there and buy groceries.
Was that available to off-campus families?
I don't know the answer to that.
I really don't.
In your early memories, most of the faculty lived on campus?
Yes, they do.
And the professional staff, I presume, also?
I don't know much of the professional staff did.
How much of it, what percentage that was, I really don't know.
Back to the school.
You all had playgrounds and all that.
Well, not exactly.
We just had some vacant land out there and we could do what we wanted to on it.
And when did you, you attended classes on campus until what grade?
I moved off, we moved to the consolidated school during my second year in school.
So that'd be 38.
because Henry Gilchrist has told me when they came in 37, he remembered talk about the new school building across Jersey.
What was your reaction to that?
Did that seem like a big deal?
Oh, it seemed like a big thing.
I thought that was a big fancy place, and I didn't understand all of it going that way, but that seemed like an awful fancy place.
We had a nice school, and they built a high school, and it just seemed like it was a great big school to me.
Mr. Gilchrist also mentioned about the incorporation of the city
municipality of College Station.
Did your dad have any part in that?
I don't know about the incorporation.
My daddy was the treasurer to buy the land for a consolidated school.
Oh, really?
Yeah, and found some papers one time about him accumulating money to buy the land to put the school on.
College Station was incorporated, I believe, in 1938.
And my wife's father had something to do with that.
But I don't know whether Daddy ever worked on the city part or not.
I don't ever remember him being particularly involved in the city.
Mr. Gilchrist remembered that what stimulated everybody to move was Travis Bryan Sr.'
's plan
that Brian would annex college and that he said that his dad and some of the other people on the faculty didn't want that to happen so they got busy to try to incorporate and the reason for the city limit being where it is there near Hensel Park was that there was a geographic limit as to how far one annexation could go horizontally and that was the limit and by the time that
It could have been extended a second time they had already incorporated.
Have you ever heard any stories about how the name College Station came to be?
Well, the stories I've heard I presume to be true.
There used to be several trains that came through because that was the principal way of getting here, and the porter
which would always call out the name of the town, as he went through the train, as it approached the station, would say, College Station.
And that's where College Station came from.
Was the mailing address before incorporated?
Do you remember what?
I don't know the answer to that.
Because there was a post office.
Yes, there was a post office.
It was in the academic building on the first floor.
That's the first post office I remember.
We're still in these elementary years.
Were there any establishments within access for you on foot or on bicycle that you as a youngster were prohibited from interviewing?
I don't remember any that I was prohibited.
I'm talking about by your parents.
Yeah, I don't remember any that were prohibited.
The Northgate Sparks Pharmacy was there.
Lipscomb's Pharmacy came in a little later.
Mr. Casey was there, but I don't remember any place that my folks told me I couldn't go.
Now, when does Hard Liquors become?
I don't know what year.
Hard Liquors, I guess, had been in business a good while, and I don't ever remember
mother or daddy telling me not to go there, but I knew I wasn't supposed to be there.
He sold beer.
Yeah.
But he did not cheat the law and try to sell it.
Not that I knew of, uh-uh.
Were there any other places of comparative easy access to the campus before World War II where beer was sold?
Not that I remember.
As we're getting up close, moving on up chronologically toward the war, what first world events do you remember as a youngster hearing about on the radio and so forth that later would become a serious part of all our lives?
I guess the start of World War II is one of the earliest things I ever remember.
That I have a good recollection of that day and what happened.
I remember that very well.
I don't know.
I remember when President Roosevelt visited the university.
Oh, describe your recollection of that.
I don't know what year that was, but Dr. Walton was president and President Roosevelt came and he and Dr. Walton rode around a track in Kyle Field.
But I can't tell you exactly what year that was.
Was the war underway?
I don't think so.
I think it was before the war.
Do you remember any impression that President Roosevelt made on your... Oh, I just thought it was real interesting that somebody that big would come to College Station.
Were there other celebrities of those pre-war years you remember?
No, I used to enjoy thinking about the people that came to what was then called the Town Hall, which was the professional series, and I remember some of those people thinking that was awful special that they came to our community.
I remember when they made the movie We've Never Been Licked, I broke up the set on that a couple of times.
Describe that.
Well, a lot of that filming was done in Cebiza, and I used to go in there because I was mesmerized by Martha O'Driscoll and what was the other girl's name, whatever it was, and I used to get there and make faces at them, and I'd make them laugh as a little kid, and they would run me out of the set on two or three occasions.
Did you see Robert Mitchum?
Yeah, Noah Berry Jr.
and Robert Mitchum.
They were all here and it was kind of interesting.
I used to go to the picture show all the time so it was fun to see them make one.
Where did they live?
I mean, where did they stay, spend the night when they were here?
I don't know the answer to that.
Did they eat where you all could see them?
They would eat lunch.
These sets where you said you made faces, were these indoor or outdoor scenes?
Well, some of both.
I remember the Kyle Field scene where they invited all the local people to come fill up Kyle Field.
And then there were a lot of scenes that were shot in Cebiza.
The dances and some of the other scenes, they had quite a set in Cebiza.
Because this is 1943?
Something like that.
So you're almost a teenager.
Yeah.
And did mom or dad ever threaten you with punishment?
No.
They used to threaten me all the time.
I don't remember that they ever did over that situation.
But my mama used to really get to me when I was old enough that she'd tell me to go out and pick out a switch and bring it to her.
And that was always very humiliating.
Now, older brother goes away, he plays freshman football and then goes away to the service.
Right.
What impression did that make on you as a youngster?
Made a big impression on me.
I hated very much to see my brother leave.
I was very impressed with my brother and what he had done and regretted very much that he had to leave.
That really bothered me.
I used to wear some of his clothes and think to myself, I'll be awful glad when he comes back and gets his clothes.
How did the campus change during the war?
Well, the big change on the campus during the war was that there were so many people on the campus.
You had all the Navy, you had all the Air Force, and you had all the ASTP people, and my mother was the hostess at
the lounge in Keist Hall, I believe is the name of it, dorm two.
That was open for the military people and particularly the Navy.
My aunt who lived with us worked for the USDA at the time and I just, I know that it always fascinated me all of the military people that were there plus how many military people moved in and a lot of those kids were in our school.
It just, it seemed like the campus was much busier than it had ever been before, but that was the big difference.
Did that broaden your perception, because these must have been youngsters from a wide geographic area.
Most of them were from the north or east, and that was the first time I'd ever been around them much, and yeah, I think I gained an impression out of that.
Do you remember,